docs(releasing): add schedule, more explicit integration testing (#9695)
GoogleChrome/lighthouse: docs/releasing.md

### Cadence

> We aim to release every 3 weeks. Our schedule is set as follows: One day before the [expected Chromium branch point](https://www.chromium.org/developers/calendar) (which is every six weeks) and again exactly 3 weeks after that day.

Reviewer: I don't feel comfortable writing this down with no established history of being able to pull this off and without a bot doing the releasing, but I guess I'm comfortable with you taking the heat for it, @connorjclark :)

For example, following this schedule, we will attempt a release on these dates:

* _Oct 15 2019_
* Nov 5 2019
* _Nov 26 2019_
* Dec 17 2019
* ...

Italicized dates are the day before the expected Chromium branch point.

The planned ship dates are added to the internal Lighthouse calendar.

If a release is necessary outside these scheduled dates, we may choose to skip the next scheduled release.

> In general, the above release dates are when new versions will be available in npm. About a week later, it will be reflected in LR / PSI. Some 10 weeks later, it will be available in Chrome.

Reviewer: > it will be available in Chrome

stable?

### Cadence

We aim to release every 3 weeks. Our schedule is set as follows: One day before the [expected Chromium branch point](https://www.chromium.org/developers/calendar) (which is every six weeks) and again exactly 3 weeks after that day.

Example, the next fews releases (as of this writing) are:

* _Oct 15 2019_
* Nov 5 2019
* _Nov 26 2019_
* Dec 17 2020
* _Jan 7 2020_
* Jan 28 2020
* _Feb 18 2020_
* Mar 10 2020

Italicized dates are the day before the expected Chromium branch point.

> The planned ship dates are added to the internal Lighthouse calendar.

Reviewer 2: This seems weird to have on a "public-ish" doc.  I think it's on us to handle this.

Unless we ship a public LH release calender @egsweeny

Author: I could put a big disclaimer here, saying that most of this doc is for internal, core member only. Just because that's the case, doesn't mean we need to keep the information private - I think keeping this stuff centralized to the repo is better than in a google doc.

```sh
# See the internal README for updating Lighthouse.

# Test things out locally, if happy, deploy to canary and see how the graphs react. 20 minutes should be enough time.

# Do the stuff in "Test LR changes in Canary".
# https://g3doc.corp.google.com/chrome/headless/lightrider/README.md?cl=head#test-lr-changes-in-canary

# Verify that Lightrider works properly, and is generating reports fully. Consider the new features that have been added.
# Note: if the changes include proto changes make sure that the API has those new fields.
# If anything is wrong, stop releasing, investigate, and prioritize landing the PR.

# For bonus points, add some tests covering new features. Either a new test, or an extra
# assertion in an existing test.
```

Now that the integrations are confirmed to work, go back to `lighthouse` folder.

```sh
# Run the tests again.
# Note: you can skip this if you didn't need to land any changes.
bash ./lighthouse-core/scripts/release/test.sh

# Prepare the commit, replace x.x.x with the desired version
bash ./lighthouse-core/scripts/release/prepare-commit.sh x.x.x

# Open the PR and await merge...
echo "It's been merged! 🎉"

> # One last test (this script uses origin/master, so we also get the commit with the new changelog - that commit should be HEAD).

Reviewer: should this step be run in pristine?

Author: The release scripts cd to pristine. You always run them  from a development checkout.

### Versioning

We follow [semver](https://semver.org/) versioning semantics (`vMajor.Minor.Patch`). Breaking changes will bump the major version. New features or bug fixes will bump the minor version. If a release contains no new features, then we'll only bump the patch version.

## Release Process

Note: You'll wanna be on a Linux machine, since the Lightrider step will require that.

### On the scheduled release date

Before starting, you should announce to the LH eng channel that you are releasing,
and that no new PRs should be merged until you are done. If you have to go through all these steps
again to assert that release-blocking fixes work, other PRs may be merged too, but that should

> be coordinate with you.

Reviewer: The second sentence seems more complicated than it is. Until the bump PR is merged we don't have a new version for them to interfere with, and the bump PR can't be merged until release-blocking fixes are landed. It seems enough to say "no new PRs should be merged until you are done."

Author: ok, removed

```sh
# Run the tests.
bash ./lighthouse-core/scripts/release/test.sh
# Change into the pristine folder.
cd ../lighthouse-pristine
```

Confirm DevTools integration will work:
```sh
# You should have Chromium already checked out at ~/chromium/src
# See: https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/get-the-code

# Roll to Chromium folder.

> yarn devtools

Reviewer: @paulirish wasn't there a way (used to be a way?) to live-edit devtools? Could we do that with Lighthouse so that the releaser isn't dependent on rebuilding?

Reviewer 3: yahh there is a thing now. `--custom-devtools-frontend`

https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/1791150

this might just work for us. but might not because remote modules.

# Checkout latest Chromium code.
cd ~/chromium/src
git pull
git new-branch lh-roll-x.x.x
gclient sync

> autoninja -C out/Release chrome blink_tests

Reviewer: how bad is this without goma?

Author: oh it's unbearable.

# Run tests and rebase.
yarn --cwd ~/chromium/src/third_party/blink/renderer/devtools test 'http/tests/devtools/audits/*.js' --reset-results
# Verify the changes are expected.
git diff

# Verify that the Audits panel still works. Consider the new features that have been added.
# If anything is wrong, stop releasing, investigate, and prioritize landing the PR.

> # For bonus points, add some tests covering new features. Either a new test, or an extra

Reviewer: if this is a priority we should figure out a way to have this done when new features land. Putting it here means either we'll never release because no one will want to take on the massive work or this will never be done :)

Author: New features usually come with a smoke test, so the day they run smoothly in all of our integrations, we get this for free.

# assertion in an existing test.

git cl upload --bypass-hooks
# Go to Gerrit, run CQ dry run, ensure the tests all pass.
```

Confirm Lightrider integration will work:
```sh
# Run the internal `update_lighthouse_assets.sh` script.

> # Update that silly string that sets the version number for metrics.

Reviewer: it seems less useful to have these lines here than just to say to test it (the internal doc has step by step directions)

Author: removed... this line is actually uncovered in the internal docs, but I've updated them now.

> # Test things out locally, if happy, deploy to canary and see how the graphs react.

Reviewer: how long will this typically take?

Author: updated. not long to see if something went bad.

# Do the stuff in "Test LR changes in Canary".
# https://g3doc.corp.google.com/chrome/headless/lightrider/README.md?cl=head#test-lr-changes-in-canary

# Verify that Lightrider works properly, and is generating reports fully. Consider the new features that have been added.

> # Note: if the changes include proto changes make sure that the API has those new fields.

Reviewer: can we automate this?

Author: maybe @exterkamp would be interested in doing this in the future

# If anything is wrong, stop releasing, investigate, and prioritize landing the PR.

> # For bonus points, add some tests covering new features. Either a new test, or an extra

Reviewer: same as for devtools

# assertion in an existing test.
```

Now that the integrations are confirmed to work, go back to `lighthouse` folder.

```sh
# Run the tests again.
# Note: you can skip this if you didn't need to land any changes.
bash ./lighthouse-core/scripts/release/test.sh

# Prepare the commit, replace x.x.x with the desired version
bash ./lighthouse-core/scripts/release/prepare-commit.sh x.x.x

# Open the PR and await merge...
echo "It's been merged! 🎉"

> # Get that new changelog commit + one last test.

Reviewer: not sure what this is referring to. From an earlier draft?

Author: updated .. the test.sh does two important things here (tests, and updates to latest code)

### Versioning

We follow [semver](https://semver.org/) versioning semantics (`vMajor.Minor.Patch`). Breaking changes will bump the major version. New features or bug fixes will bump the minor version. If a release contains no new features, then we'll only bump the patch version.

## Release Process

> Note: You'll wanna be on a Linux machine, since the Lightrider step will require that.

Reviewer 2: Lol ironic, Linux could build Lightrider, but not itself.

Author: somehow this is about star wars ..

Reviewer 2: context: https://old.reddit.com/r/PrequelMemes/

Author: ack

# See: https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/get-the-code

# Roll to Chromium folder.
yarn devtools

# Checkout latest Chromium code.
cd ~/chromium/src
git pull
git new-branch lh-roll-x.x.x
gclient sync
autoninja -C out/Release chrome blink_tests

# Run tests and rebase.
yarn --cwd ~/chromium/src/third_party/blink/renderer/devtools test 'http/tests/devtools/audits/*.js' --reset-results
# Verify the changes are expected.
git diff

# Verify that the Audits panel still works. Consider the new features that have been added.
# If anything is wrong, stop releasing, investigate, and prioritize landing the PR.

# For bonus points, add some tests covering new features. Either a new test, or an extra
# assertion in an existing test.

git cl upload --bypass-hooks
# Go to Gerrit, run CQ dry run, ensure the tests all pass.
```

Confirm Lightrider integration will work:
```sh
# Run the internal `update_lighthouse_assets.sh` script.

# Update that silly string that sets the version number for metrics.

# Test things out locally, if happy, deploy to canary and see how the graphs react.

# Do the stuff in "Test LR changes in Canary".

> # https://g3doc.corp.google.com/chrome/headless/lightrider/README.md?cl=head#test-lr-changes-in-canary

Reviewer 2: Remove me please :wink:

Reviewer 3: this should be a go/ link.

Reviewer: bump

> # Verify that the Audits panel still works. Consider the new features that have been added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Verify that Lightrider works properly, and is generating reports fully. Consider the new features that have been added.
# Note: if the changes include proto changes make sure that the API has those new fields.
```

# If anything is wrong, stop releasing, investigate, and prioritize landing the PR.

# For bonus points, add some tests covering new features. Either a new test, or an extra
# assertion in an existing test.
```

Now that the integrations are confirmed to work, go back to `lighthouse` folder.

```sh
# Run the tests again.
# Note: you can skip this if you didn't need to land any changes.
bash ./lighthouse-core/scripts/release/test.sh

# Prepare the commit, replace x.x.x with the desired version
bash ./lighthouse-core/scripts/release/prepare-commit.sh x.x.x

# Open the PR and await merge...
echo "It's been merged! 🎉"

# Get that new changelog commit + one last test.
bash ./lighthouse-core/scripts/release/test.sh
# Package everything for publishing

> bash ./lighthouse-core/scripts/release/prepare-package.sh

Reviewer 2: Mention making a release in GH to get the x.x.x tag, which is required for `prepare-package`?

Author: That's not a required step for making a tag, the `prepare-package` script makes the tag. but I do need to add the whole "add GH Release" thing
